Welcome to the
Apple Developer Conference.
Thanks for coming to our
Bonjour networking session this morning.
Why are you here?
You're here because you are the guys
that make really cool networking
software and networking hardware,
and you want it to be reliable and
easy to use without users having to
type in host names and IP addresses and
port numbers and nonsense like that.
You want to do screen sharing,
you want to do file sharing,
you want to print over the network,
you want to access music and photos and
movies and other media over the network.
And Bonjour makes that
reliable and easy to use.
Sometimes your client and your
server or your communicating peers
might not be on the same network.
They might be on opposite
sides of the internet.
Sometimes there might be
NAT gateways in the middle,
rewriting the packets as they go through.
Wide area Bonjour makes
that easy for you as well.
So I'll start with an outline of
what we're going to talk about today.
A lot of you here know all about Bonjour,
but more than half of the
attendees this year are first
time at the developer conference,
so we're going to have a quick recap
of what Bonjour is and how it works.
Then Roary is going to tell you all
about the really cool new stuff we have
using Bonjour on iPhone and iPod touch.
And he's got some cool demos,
which I think you're
really going to love.
We'll also talk to you about
how Back to My Mac works,
which is built on Bonjour.
So Back to My Mac is not just for
screen sharing and file sharing.
Your applications can use
Back to My Mac as well.
We'll wrap up with some
tips and reminders,
cover some frequent mistakes
that we see that we want to
encourage you not to make,
and then we'll have
time for Q&A at the end.
So, summing it up in one sentence,
this is what it's all about.
We want networking with TCP IP to be as
easy to use as plugging in a USB cable.
And standing here today
saying this to you,
this doesn't sound too surprising.
I think this idea has become accepted.
But five, ten years ago,
this was like heresy.
When you suggested that you would
want to do things using IP networking,
the reaction most people had was,
you must be crazy,
typing in IP addresses and
subnet masks and default
gateways and all that nonsense.
I just want to plug my
printer in the USB port.
Well, in the five years since that,
we've seen Bonjour get
adopted in the marketplace.
And now, for under $200,
you can buy a network printer with
Bonjour and you plug it in and it shows
up in the print dialog just as easily.
And that's what we want to see more of.
Some of you are probably thinking,
but AppleTalk is really good for this.
Well, we're here to tell you today,
officially, AppleTalk is dead.
AppleTalk is no longer in Snow Leopard.
And if you want to make a device,
the only network browsing
to discover printers on the
Mac is going to be Bonjour.
So that's what you need to be doing.
This slide used to be the whole talk,
now we've condensed it down to one
slide to make room for other stuff.
These are the three technological legs
that make the foundation of Bonjour or
zero configuration networking.
And Bonjour is not about this technology.
What Bonjour is about is the user
experience that we want people to have.
This is not a protocol that
we designed and then slap a
user interface on top of it.
We started out with the user
experience we wanted people to have.
But then to make that a reality,
we had to build the
technologies to make that work.
The first one is link local addressing.
DHCP is great.
Nothing wrong with DHCP servers.
But if you don't have one,
the device shouldn't fall
on its face and call for an
administrator to come and help it.
It needs to be able to get
on the network on its own.
So if you don't find a DHCP server,
it's very simple.
We looked at what AppleTalk did
and we applied the same principles.
You pick a random address in a
range reserved for this purpose.
You send an ARP request.
If somebody answers that,
it means they have the address
and you pick a different one.
If nobody answers, it's yours.
So that's how devices can
just plug into an Ethernet hub
and all get unique addresses,
which is great.
But you need to know what the address is,
and you don't want to
be typing in addresses.
So multicast DNS is the next
layer of the three-layer cake.
In standard internet applications,
DNS is the name service
that we're familiar with.
And just like I said with DHCP,
nothing wrong with DHCP servers,
there's nothing wrong with
DNS servers as long as you have one
and you know how to administer it.
But we want a lightweight solution.
We want a safety net for
when that's not available.
So multicast DNS takes the same
packet formats and the same names
and the same record types of standard
DNS but sends them over multicast.
So every device has a little responder
listening for these packets and
when it sees a query for its name,
it says, hey, that's me and gives a
standard DNS answer.
So that's good.
So now you can type in a name,
something.local,
and have that resolved by multicast.
And you can type in a name,
something.local,
and have that resolved by multicast.
The URLs there tell you where
you can find more details
and all the specifications.
So this is our architecture that
we launched five or six years ago.
It is the DNS service discovery semantics
delivered using multicast DNS packets,
completely zero configuration.
But the day we launched that,
we knew that the first question we
were going to have once it became
popular was people would say,
this is great,
but I want to scale it beyond the subnet.
So there's a reason we picked
DNS packet formats and records
and naming in the first place,
because DNS is the world's largest
scale distributed database.
It scales beyond the
enterprise to the whole planet.
So using the same DNS service
discovery semantics,
we can perform those operations
using wide area unicast DNS.
So we register using standard
DNS dynamic update to put those
records on the name server,
and we discover using DNS queries.
And those of you who've
got your laptops out,
if you look in Safari and
look under Bonjour bookmarks,
you will see three pages that are
being advertised here with information.
So if you forget the URL,
it doesn't matter.
You don't have to remember the URL.
You can just look in
Bonjour bookmarks and find those.
Standard DNS is good,
but there were some extra
things we wanted to do.
Standard DNS updates stay
on the server indefinitely,
so if you unplug your laptop from
the Ethernet cable and walk away,
nobody's going to delete those records.
And we didn't want an administrator
to have to clean those up,
so we added a lease mechanism.
Just like when you get a
DHCP address from a DHCP server,
it's not permanent, it has a time on it.
And if you don't renew
it before it expires,
then you lose the address
and it goes back into the
pool of available addresses.
When we do updates on the server,
we have an extension to the DNS protocol
that puts a lifetime on those updates.
And as long as the client machine is
active and on the network and running,
then it renews those
records and keeps them live.
But if you unplug and walk away,
then when the records expire,
they get deleted automatically.
Another reality of today's world is a lot
of users are behind NAT gateways at home.
And NAT gateways rewrite the packets so
that you only have one public address.
And roughly speaking,
the client machine doesn't even
know what the public address is.
It doesn't know the packets
are being rewritten.
So we added support to Bonjour so
that when your application running
on Mac OS X or on Windows or
on Linux registers its service,
we detect if there's a NAT gateway
and we talk to the NAT gateway.
We set up a port mapping automatically
so the users no longer have
to do that manual port mapping
that's very hard to explain.
We find the public address,
we get a public port mapping,
and then we put that external
information into the DNS so that
you can run a web server at home.
You can run... photo sharing,
you can run whatever
applications you want.